docs: add "Customizing Kubo" doc (#9854)
ipfs/kubo: docs/customizing.md

# Customizing Kubo

You may want to customize Kubo if you want to reuse most of Kubo's machinery. This document discusses some approaches you may consider for customizing Kubo, and their tradeoffs.

Some common use cases for customizing Kubo include:

- Using a custom datastore for storing blocks, pins, or other Kubo metadata
- Adding a custom data transfer protocol into Kubo
- Customizing Kubo internals, such as adding allowlist/blocklist functionality to Bitswap
- Adding new commands, interfaces, functionality, etc. to Kubo while reusing the libp2p swarm
- Building on top of Kubo's configuration and config migration functionality

## Summary
This table summarizes the tradeoffs between the approaches below:

> ||  Boxo | Kubo Plugin | Bespoke Extension Point | Go Plugin | Fork |

Reviewer: Idea: turn the headers into anchor links to the sections below.

For more information about the different types of Kubo plugins, see [plugins.md](./plugins.md).

Kubo plugins can also be injected at runtime using Go plugins (see below), but these are hard to use and not well supported by Go, so we don't recommend them.

## Bespoke Extension Points
Certain Kubo functionality may have their own extension points. For example:

* Kubo supports the [Routing v1](https://github.com/ipfs/specs/blob/main/routing/ROUTING_V1_HTTP.md) API for delegating content routing to external processes
* Kubo supports the [Pinning Service API](https://github.com/ipfs/pinning-services-api-spec) for delegating pinning to external processes
* Kubo supports [DNSLink](https://dnslink.dev/) for delegating name->CID mappings to DNS

(This list is not exhaustive.)

These can generally be developed and deployed as sidecars (or full external services) without modifying the Kubo binary.

## Go Plugins
Go provides [dynamic plugins](https://pkg.go.dev/plugin) which can be loaded at runtime into a Go binary.

> Kubo currently works with Go plugins. But using Go plugins requires that you compile the plugin using the exact same version of the Go toolchain with the same configuration (build flags, environment variables, etc.). As a result, generally you'd build Kubo and the plugins together at the same time, and at that point you may as well just compile the functionality directly into Kubo and avoid Go plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubo currently works with Go plugins. But using Go plugins requires that you compile the plugin using the exact same version of the Go toolchain with the same configuration (build flags, environment variables, etc.). As a result, you likely need to build Kubo and the plugins together at the same time, and at that point you may as well just compile the functionality directly into Kubo and avoid Go plugins.
```
